---
title: becoming a (physics) teacher
date: 06.20.2024
description: a new chapter begins
tags: ["teaching", "personal"]
---

It's funny how different paths open themselves up to you. I'm on my way to becoming a physics teacher! In my last post, I was wavering on the possibility of becoming a teacher for several reasons, but that hesitation has morphed into excitement. 

 On my last day at the school, I learned that the district I work in had two full-time physics teacher positions available. I'm not sure if it was the fact that the subject matter was physics, or that in the few days between my last blog entry I had grown to love working as a teacher even more. Like finding myself a little emotional when it hit me that I wouldn't see the senior in class anymore. Or being proud of the freshman as they conquered their fear of public speaking for their final projects. And then further extending myself, just for fun, by volunteering to help at the senior sunset, the senior barbecue, and the honor of being able to walk with them in their graduation ceremony. After the caps were tossed in the air, I stayed around for a bit just to appreciate the moment. Students coming up to me to ask for pictures with us all in our gowns, witnessing the emotions of the proud families, and soaking up the positive energy throughout campus. It really inspired me, to know that at least I played a small part in helping these students reach this milestone. And I was sad when faced with the reality that my teaching experience wouldn't quite be the same in the fall. 

 But then after dismissing my freshman for the last time, I was thanking my supervising teacher (the head of the science department) for her guidance, she mentioned to me that they needed a physics teacher for the coming school year. Physics!!! One of my favorite subjects! Hearing that was the final straw in any hesitation I had, and I quickly got in contact with the appropriate contacts in the district, and sought out my references. I scheduled a call with my old physics professor for an update recommendation letter, good ol' Dr. Barr. This man was my instructor for the entire 3-course calculus-physics, inspired an unexpected love for physics, and later become my advisor for my research in quantum computing optimization. Dr. Barr really became a role model for me in many ways, and I know many of his philosophies and mannerisms have become my own (at least in an academic sense). He cared so much about the teaching process, as much as he cared about the science of physics. He was insistent on teaching us about inequities in the industry, reserving a lab session to discuss improving inclusiveness of women in STEM. He had a quiet, understated personality, and was very careful with his words–as if making an incorrect statement would increase the mass of the proton and throw the world into chaos. But really, it was thoughtfulness. Dr Barr was easily the most thoughtful and conscientious person, let alone professor, that I had ever met. His teaching philosphy and methods made an incredible impact on me, resonating throughout the rest of my academic career, and my own character.

 Now with this opportunity to become a physics teacher myself, I hope that I can do half as good of a job as my professor did for me. I've been excited about the idea ever since I knew it was possible. How will I decorate my classroom? What can I say to encourage a scientific work ethic? When can I squeeze in a highschool-friendly lecture about quantum mechanics? I know I was previously hesistant about teaching, but I'm looking forward to this work so much. While I'll be working under an emergency credential for now, I do plan on pursuing a full single-subject credential in physics. And I hope that I can make this last. I've thought about how I can go beyond to inspire students. Maybe I'll be a swim coach, that'd be so full-circle it hurts (I swam for 15 years)! Or maybe I can lead a robotics club! The possibility of becoming a positive influence in the community is more exciting than I had ever imagined. 

 I submitted my application just a few hours ago, and I hope to hear back about an interview. Should I get the position, I'll finally have some full-time work, and I'll be able to support my personal engineering and research projects along the way. I'll also have to identify and register for a pathway to getting a full single-subject credential, but that's just a few classes on the side.

 Looking forward to this new chapter in life. Hopefully I can inspire some students to become mathematicians, physicists, or engineers.

 That'd be a pretty good legacy after all.